So on the switch show run we need to configure additional configuration on these interfaces.
The switched virtual interfaces on the switch.
We need to configure what's called an IP help her address to forward DCP requests to the router.
So there are a number of things we need to do on the switch including forwarding the DHEA HP request
to messages to the router.
So let's do that on Vigeland 10 and on VLAN 20.
So firstly show run.
Notice as prior diagram this interfaces and VLAN 10 and do this interface is in VLAN 20.
So P.S. One is in VLAN 10.
P.S. 2 is in VLAN 20.
And that's correct.
Per the configuration shown here.
Now that we've configured the IP help her addresses DCP requests will be forwarded to the router but
the router needs to know about those networks if a rider receives a DHB request from a network that
it's not aware of it won't allocate IP addresses on the router.
I'm going to create a static Grant pointing to the switch for Network 10 1 10 0 as well as 10 1 20 0
so after the moment.
Now at the writing table contains those two static routes in addition to the directly connected interfaces
so the router should be able to ping the switches switched virtual interfaces or SFE eyes which it can.
So the rod is able to ping this IP address as well as this IP address.
Don't forget to add Rance either using a dynamic routing protocol or something else so that you have
IP connectivity in your network.
We've been told that pieces need to be able to ping the loop back of wrought a one rod one has an IP
address of wandered wandered wandered one configured on the loop back
the switch doesn't know about that network.
So we would have to add a static round
or enable a writing protocol such as I was P.F. to allow the devices to ping each other.
So now the switch keeping the loop back of the router.
In this example I'm using static routs but you could have used a writing protocol such as over SPF or
rip.
Another thing we need to do on the switch is enable IP routing when traffic is sent from Vila intend
to VLAN 20.
The switch needs to do the interview lan routing of that traffic so into VLAN routing needs to be enabled
by using the IP routing command.
The switch needs to be configured to route from one switch to a virtual interface to another so hence
we add the command IP routing to the switches configuration.
So now let's test all the pieces he's able to get IP addresses from the DCP server and ping the loop
back of the router.
The first thing we need to do on the P.C. is ensure that it's using DCP and then we need to ensure that
it's retrieved an IP address through DCP.
We can confirm that by using the command IP config notice in this example it's retrieved an IP address
of tendered wonder tender tendered 18.
Can it ping the switch.
Yes it can.
Can it paying the router yes it can.
Can it ping the loop back of the router.
Yes it can.
So that looks great.
What about PCI to we need to configure it to use DHEA P.
You can see here that it's already been allocated a gateway and DNS server on the desktop.
We can go to a command prompt and we can use the command IP config to verify whether it got an IP address
through DCP.
It has.
So can it ping the default gateway the switch.
Yes it can.
Can it paying the routers Ethernet interface.
Can it ping the writers loop back address.
Yes it can.
So that's looking great.
What about the piece he's pinging each other.
So here's P.S. One yes.
P.S. two IP address of P.S. One is 10 dot one attended 18 ping tendered one to tender 18 that works.
IP address on the side is tendered one to twenty dot 13.
So can P.S. 1 ping tendered one to twenty dot 13.
Yes it can so at this point we've got to the lab working
so can write a one paying P.S. To yes it can cannot ping P.S. 1
yes it can we can use the command help to C available commands on the P.S. One of those commands is
trace round so trace right to the back of the rudder.
Notice the traffic goes to the switch and then it goes to the router
trace ranch to the rota same happens here
what happens if we trace two pieces two from P.S. One trace goes via the switch so I'm happy with that
we've successfully configured the network don't forget to save your configuration when you've finished
with your lab I always do that in the exam just to be sure.
I hope you found this video and lab useful.